---
title: "Big Ides 5.3 and 5.4 Blogs"
description: "Blogging about Big Idea 5.3 and 5.4"
layout: post
---

# Big Idea 5.3

## What age groups use Facebook vs TikTok? What does the data say? Is there purposeful exclusion in these platforms? Is it harmful? Should it be corrected? Is it good business?
- TikTok is typically used by people between the ages of 13 and 24 and Facebook is typically used by people 25 and up. Data supports this. Importantly, TikTok's user base is almost entirely teenagers and young adults.
- There isn't purposeful exclusion in these platforms.
- This is harmful because TikTok has been shown to damage the attention span of its users, and much of TikTok's user base are still developing.
- There isn't anything to be corrected about TikTok because it doesn't necessarily target younger people.
- It is beneficial to TikTok's business because younger people tend to have more time and thus more time to use social media.

## Why do virtual assistants have female voices? Amazon, Alexa Google, Apple Siri. Was this purposeful? Is it harmful? Should it be corrected? Is it good business?
- Virtual assistants have female voices to articulate vowels better. This was likely purposeful. 
- It isn't too harmful because these virtual assistants give users the option to switch the voice from a female one to a male one. However, it could perpetuate harmful ideas of gender roles.
- This should be corrected by not having a default gender for virtual assitants and giving the choice to the user when devices are being set up.
- It doesn't have much of an effect on business.

## Talk about an algorithm that influences your decisions, think about these companies (ie FAANG - Facebook, Amazon, Apple,Netflix, Google)
- Google's algorithms influences what ideas I get exposed to. I use YouTube (which is owned by Google) and YouTube's recommendation algorithm has a significant amount of control over what ideas I get exposed to.
- Additionally, targeted advertisement algorithms are built to influence people to get them to buy something.

## HP Computers are racist
- ### Does the owner of the computer think this was intentional?
    - The owner suspects that this could be intentional.
- ### If yes or no, justify your conclusion.
    - He states that HP computers are racist, but admits that he doesn't have enough information and welcomes thoughts on it.
- ### How do you think this happened?
    - This may have happened because the facial recogntion was created with light-skinned people in mind.
    - It probably wasn't tested with dark-skinned people.
- ### Is this harmful? Was it intended to be harmful or exclude?
    - This is obviously harmful. Dark-skinned people are excluded from the facial recognition feature. 
    - It is unlikely that it is intended to be harmful or exclusionary.
- ### Should it be corrected?
    - This should be corrected. The feature, intentionally or not, is discriminatory.
- ### What would you or should you do to produce a better outcome?
    - I'd make sure to test with a variety of faces and skin-tones and debug accordingly.

# Big Idea 5.4
## CompSci has 150 ish principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?
- Something I could do is to ask AP CSP students to test my group's project and to give suggestions.
- One way this could be done is to, once the project is in a fully functioning state, send the link to AP CSP students and ask for suggestions.
## What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your project be better weith crowdsourcing?
- My project could be improved by crowdsourcing workout tips and ideas and showing them to viewers (with some sort of filtering, of course). This could be crowdsourced from Del Norte.

## What kind of data could you capture at N@tM to make evening interesting? Perhaps use this data to impress Teachers during finals week.
- I could record what kinds projects people in AP CSP made. I can use this data to find trends in what AP CSP students are interested in.
- I already know that in my period alone, three groups (including mine) are making projects that track fitness/workouts. This tells me that AP CSP students are very interested in making projects to track workouts. However the sample size is too small for me to make any good assumptions.